DAN (VOICEOVER): Since our return
to Earth after defeating Zenoheld,
a whole lot has happened.
The most exciting thing is that Bakugan Interspace finally
went online globally, allowing kids from all over the world
to show their battling skills in a safe and friendly
environment.
Unfortunately, it seems like not everyone
wants this virtual realm to remain happy and free.
A mysterious evil force from another world
has infiltrated Bakugan Interspace
and is trying to take over.
OK, buddy. Let's do this.
All right.
Bakugan Brawl.
THEME SONG: What are you going to do?
The odds are stacked against you.
Back against the wall.
Got to give it your all.
Ah, ah, ah, ah, ah, ah.
This is the final stand.
The power's in your hand.
Two worlds collide on the inside.
You got to fight for what's right
before it's gone, gone, gone.
This is Bakugan.
Ability activate.
Galactic Dragon.
Not so fast, buddy.
Ability activate, Phantom Blow.
[blasting]
[grunts] Not bad, Jake.
You got me pretty good there.
Your skill is improving.
Well, he does have me as a coach after all.
OK, Jake.
Ready to kick it up a notch?
[energetic music]
DAN (VOICEOVER): The Bakugan Battle
Brawlers in \"Brawler To Be.\"
JAKE: I'm ready, Dan the Man.
Give me everything you've got, buddy.
Ability activate.
Scale Arrow.
That's it.
Fusion Ability activate.
Dragon Surge.
[groans]
Whoa!
Oh, man.
I was so close to winning.
I had you on the ropes, but I blew it.
Oh!
This stinks.
DAN: Take it easy. - Huh?
You fought a good fight.
You really bring the intensity you show on the football field
to the battle arena in a big way.
You show great promise as a battler, Jake.
But there is still much to teach him, Dan.
Yeah.
But one day soon he's going to make a great addition
to the Battle Brawlers.
Huh?
Who me?
Yeah.
I'm a Battle Brawler.
I'm a-- what?
Wait a minute.
You said \"one day I will be,\" so does that mean I'm not one yet?
Why not? Is it because I lost?
It's because I stink.
Just relax, dude.
You're working yourself up.
You don't stink as a battler.
We just have some work we got to--
[shouts]
[gasps]
I blew it.
You gave me a chance and took time out to train and coach me,
and I let you down.
Don't worry, Dan the Man.
I'll make you proud.
I'll prove that I'm worthy of the Battle Brawler title.
Um.
OK, big guy. MARUCHO (ON COMM): Dan.
Huh?
MARUCHO (ON COMM): Dan, do you read me?
Yeah, Marucho. I'm here.
Our security systems have detected another breach
from a Neathian agent.
Are you serious?
It seems he's in the N4 battle arena.
Can you meet us there as soon as possible?
DAN (ON COMM): We'll be there.
REN: I see you have a lock on the enemy agent.
So how did you manage that?
Well, Ren, you pointed out that the Neathians were
infiltrating Bakugan Interspace by bypassing the access points,
so I reset the system to raise an alarm whenever
it detects a combatant who hasn't entered
through an access point.
That's very clever of you.
It sounds like it was a complex job.
Once I knew where to look for the weaknesses,
it was no big deal.
Thanks to you, Ren.
Uh.
Right.
[cheering]
Bakugan Brawl.
Bakugan, stand.
Let's do this.
[screeches]
Bakugan Brawl.
Bakugan, stand.
Rise, Subterra Avior.
Whoa.
Ability activate.
Gale Storm.
[screeching]
[blasting]
[explosions]
Yeah, boy.
Huh?
But how?
MASON: Listen, kid.
You're not going to win anything using little league
garbage like that.
Maybe it's time that you learned a hard lesson.
Ability activate.
[roars]
Huh?
[gasps]
MASON: Long Aercules.
Whoa.
Unreal.
[blasting]
[screams]
[chuckles]
[screeches]
ANNOUNCER: Battle over.
Winner, Mason Brown.
I'm sure you're a really big deal with the preschool crowd,
but I'm looking for someone tougher.
Huh?
That dude's harsh.
Did you see that?
He smoked him with one attack.
I've got one spot left on my dance card.
Anyone else up for a twirl around the battle arena?
Huh, Mason Brown.
MARUCHO: Then it must be him.
That's the name that the security system flagged.
OK.
I'm going to own this guy so badly,
he'll wish he'd never stepped foot inside Bakugan Interspace.
Hey, Mutton Chops.
I'm game.
DAN: Ah, snap.
It's Dan.
You're in a world of hurt now, buddy.
That's right.
Dan's number one.
Let's see how your Avior does against Drago.
CROWD: (CHANTING) Dan! Dan!
Dan! - Huh?
Huh? CROWD: (CHANTING) Dan!
Dan! Dan!
Dan! - Dan, huh?
Ah.
So you must be the Battle Brawlers.
It sounds like you've heard us then.
Maybe you want to pack up and leave peacefully.
Why would I do that?
This may be just the thing I was looking for.
OK.
So let's quit talking.
Dan the Man, wait a sec.
What?
You got to let me take this one.
Huh?
But why, Jake?
I'm already fired up and ready to go from our training battle.
Let me do this and prove to all of you
that I'm ready to be a Bakugan Battle Brawler right now.
I'll rock this house.
Really?
Is that guy serious?
I don't want to see him battle.
Yeah.
None of us do.
[audience booing]
What are you jerks booing at?
I can do this.
I'll show you.
I'll show all of you monkeys, man.
OK. OK.
Calm down.
You can fight this battle.
Really?
[grumbles] You sure about this?
Yeah.
I've got faith in him.
He could do this.
No problem.
Go win this thing, Jake.
Yeah!
ANNOUNCER: The next battle will see Mason
Brown versus Jake Vallory.
I can do this.
Coredem and I can win it.
Hmph.
Yeah, Jake.
Take it.
ANNOUNCER: Bakugan field open.
Gate Card, set.
[shouts]
Bakugan Brawl.
Bakugan, stand.
Go, Subterra Coredem.
Bakugan Brawl.
Rise, Subterra Avior.
[roars]
Ability activate.
Core Knuckle.
Hit him hard.
Hit him fast.
Woo!
Ability activate.
Offering Armor.
I thought you were a tough guy.
Are you just going to hide behind a shield
like a scared little turtle?
You have no clue.
What did you say?
Perhaps before entering into battle,
you should learn a little something about your opponent.
What's that supposed to mean?
You're just trying to distract me.
All I need to know is you're hiding behind your shield
like a scaredy cat.
Ability activate.
Phantom Blow.
[blasting]
[banging]
I don't understand.
This even worked on Drago.
Why won't this guy go down?
Why?
Ha.
You're a little quick to lose your cool, aren't you, big guy?
I get it.
I can see that you're scared.
Well, you should be.
[groans] I am not scared.
You're the one who refuses to come out and fight like a man.
Totally.
Oh, OK.
All right then.
Ability activate.
Bolting Chain.
[electric crackling]
[roars]
Whoa.
Um, OK.
Gate Card, open.
Land Pressure.
Nice move, Jake.
Land Pressure is a great Command Card to use because it'll
freeze your opponent.
Ha ha.
Now what, pal?
Ability activate.
Luft Howling.
[blasting]
Huh?
What the--
[blasting]
Coredem!
COMPUTER: Jake Life Force, 60%.
That was just a small taste.
Gate Card, set.
Bakugan Brawl.
Let's go.
MASON AND JAKE: Bakugan, stand.
[roars]
All right.
Let's try this again.
Ability activate.
Phantom Blow.
Pathetic.
Ability activate.
Battle Howling.
[blasting]
[groans] Ability--
ability--
Save your breath.
[yelps]
Battle Howling will prevent you
from activating any abilities, so you
are essentially helpless.
I've wasted enough time.
Ability activate.
Ifrit Cannon.
[fire roaring]
COMPUTER: Jake Life Force, zero.
ANNOUNCER: Battle over.
Winner, Mason Brown.
Hm.
Big fail for a big guy.
Man, I can't believe I lost.
What was that?
You're pathetic, Jake.
Boo.
Just go home, you bum.
Jake!
It'll be OK.
Don't worry.
Ha.
Dan Kuso.
[grumbles]
I'll be seeing you around, my friend.
[ominous music]
[grumbles]
MASON (VOICEOVER): Our search continues, Avior.
JAKE (VOICEOVER): Time to redeem ourselves, Coredem.
Yeah.
Jake, I'm sorry.
I let you down.
Hey, Dan.
[giggling]
DAN: Julie.
Oh, wow.
You actually let him battle?
Yeah.
He wanted to prove himself so bad.
I thought it would be good for his confidence,
but it totally backfired.
What's done is done, Dan.
We have to focus on what's important now.
Yeah.
I know.
We got to find that creep Mason.
JAKE: [shouting]
Ah!
BOTH: Huh?
JAKE (VOICEOVER): I looked like a total fool
in that battle arena.
I let Dan the Man and all of the other Brawlers down.
Most of all, I let myself down.
I had a chance to show everyone what I could do,
and I blew it, even though I had the number
one Brawler as my coach.
But I won't make that mistake again.
If I ever see that creep Mason Brown again, he's going down.
[grunts] Yes.
Yeah, baby.
Look at him.
I thought losing would make him depressed.
Seems like it lit a fire in him instead.
I don't think it's that simple.
Huh?
Aw, Dan, I know all about Subterra Brawlers,
so leave it to me.
[whistle blowing]
JAKE: Hey, Julie, what's up?
Dan tells me you battled yesterday.
Yeah.
It was a disaster.
I just wanted to prove myself as a brawler.
I should have followed Dan's teaching more closely.
It might have ended differently.
Dan knows best.
JULIE: I used to think that way too, Jake.
Huh?
I used to follow Dan around like I was a little lost puppy.
I wanted to be a better brawler, and I thought
that meant being just like Dan.
And did it?
Dan is an awesome brawler, no question.
But his style of brawling isn't the best way for everyone.
He's wild and impulsive, and that works for him.
But it didn't work for me.
Really?
Go on.
Every brawler must find their own style.
Think about how important strategy is when you're
on the field playing football.
Strategy?
Success involves following your playbook.
You need to adopt a similar approach
inside of the battle arena.
Oh.
JULIE: Dan's method of battle would
fail you in a football game.
Your strength is in executing a well-planned, step-by-step
attack which anticipates every possible reaction
from your opponent.
Just like football, you need to formulate your own sort
of playbook for brawling.
Your style must involve planning.
Planning.
Yeah.
You should be able to visualize
every round of battle.
Before I fight it.
I think I get what you're saying, Julie.
I understand.
So remember that next time you're in the battle arena
ready to throw down.
Take a moment and think of your playbook.
Then, as you're getting ready to execute your plan,
take a deep breath and visualize how it will unfold.
[wind rustling]
OK.
Visualize the attack.
[inhales]
[exhales]
Are you seriously back for more?
- You stink, Jake. - Yeah.
Go home.
You're no brawler.
Oh, man.
That's a really, really harsh crowd out there tonight.
You think Jake is ready for this?
You bet.
He's going to settle the score.
I can feel it.
ANNOUNCER: Bakugan field open.
Gate Card, set.
Bakugan Brawl.
Bakugan, stand.
Go, Subterra Coredem.
Bakugan Brawl.
Bakugan, stand.
Rise, Subterra Avior.
[laughs]
Don't let my last performance fool you.
This battle's different.
Ability activate.
Bolting Chain.
[electric crackle]
Ability activate.
Dimension Hole.
Oh, not bad there.
But let's see how long he can hold out.
Ability activate.
Scale Arrow.
[blasting]
Oh yeah?
Ability Offering Armor.
I just nullified your ability.
Just like I knew you would.
Ability activate.
Phantom Blow.
Did you also know that ability wouldn't work on me?
Ability activate.
Battle Howling.
[roars]
Gate Card, open.
Change Link Force.
What's happening?
Oh, no.
You think I'd actually fall for that twice, dude?
[blasting]
[groans] Ugh.
Maybe he did learn something from our last battle.
All right, man.
He used Command Card Change Link Force
to bounce the Battle Howling attack
right back in their own face.
How awesome.
Way to go, Jake.
Ha.
All part of the plan.
Hm.
OK.
So you've done your homework this time.
Let's go again.
Don't worry.
He won't get the drop on me this time around.
Gate Card, set.
Bakugan Brawl.
Stick to the plan, Coredem.
MASON AND JAKE: Bakugan, stand.
[roars]
Ability, activate.
Scale Arrow.
I'm not going to lose to a newbie like you.
Ability, activate.
Offering Armor.
[boom]
[roars]
- [grunts] - Oh no.
Coredem's hit.
Hold on!
[grunts]
Aw, man.
He really packs a punch.
Coredem's in trouble.
What do I do?
Every brawler must find their own style.
Take a moment and think of your playbook.
That's it.
Got it.
I can't freak out and do something wild and impulsive.
I have a strategy.
I just have to take a breath and visualize the battle.
Stick to the plan.
[snarls] Had enough yet, newbie?
Why don't you just give up?
That's not part of the plan.
Ability, activate.
Armored Exia.
Armored Exia is an ability unique to Subterra Coredem.
He uses his whole body's energy line to absorb your power.
I didn't expect such a strong defense.
[grunts]
Hey, put me down.
[shouting]
JAKE: Touchdown!
You're going to pay for that one.
Time to put you to bed.
Ability, activate.
Long Aercules.
He's got reach with that neck.
Defense.
COMPUTER: Ready Rock Hammer.
Battle Gear Boost.
He has Battle Gear?
Big deal.
I'll show him.
[shouts]
Battle Gear Ability activate.
Rock Hammer Beo-Blaster.
What the-- no!
ANNOUNCER: Battle over.
Winner, Jake Vallory.
Oh, wow.
He actually did it.
That was totally awesome.
[laughs] Just like we planned it, dude.
Nice one.
We got taken.
He must have been waiting all along for you to stick
your neck out like that.
I can't believe we got beaten by a newbie like that.
I thought it was because I was getting old,
but maybe it's who's the problem, Mason.
Pipe down, you.
That kid got really lucky.
It won't happen again.
Let's go now.
Stop right there.
Looks like we're too late.
Way to go, Jake.
Nice.
Yes.
It was a very impressive win.
Congratulations, Jake.
Good job.
Uh.
I actually won?
Ha ha ha.
Does this mean I'm an official member of the Battle Brawlers?
Oh, yeah!
JULIE: Really?
Jake won?
That's totally awesome.
Yeah.
And it's all because of you, Julie.
Thanks a lot.
Well, Dan, all I really did was
have a little chat with him.
No big deal.
JAKE: Listen up.
The key to winning is strategy.
What?
Huh?
Set!
Remember, guys.
Visualize the battle and stick to the plan.
[whistle blows]
Hut, hut, hut.
Oh!
Ugh.
What the heck is he doing?
I wonder if landing on his head
li that was part of his strategy.
[laughs]
Oh.
Looks like I'm going to have to give him
some pointers on teamplay next.
[laughs]
REN (VOICEOVER): More Neathian sleeper agents
have infiltrated the Bakugan Interspace in search
of the world's best battlers.
It looks like they're trying to kidnap
and brainwash them to help the Neathians
in their war against Gundalia.
Then Sid and Zenet showed up again
and challenged the Brawlers directly to a fight.
As a Gundalian, I didn't feel right letting the Brawlers
fight my battle for me.
So I joined in with Dan and the others.
Tune in next time to see the world's greatest brawlers
battle it out with the Neathian forces.
Bakugan Brawl.
Gundalia's counting on us, Linehalt.
[theme music]